Here listed references to the publications which are not of open access

1. Chepeliev, M., Diachuk, O., Podolets, R., Semeniuk, A., Trypolska, G. (2024). Net-Zero Transition in Ukraine: Implications for Sustainable Development Goal 7. In: Labriet, M., Espegren, K., Giannakidis, G., Ó Gallachóir, B. (eds) Aligning the Energy Transition with the Sustainable Development Goals. Lecture Notes in Energy, vol 101. Springer, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-58897-6_12
Abstract: In this study, we use a TIMES-Ukraine energy system-wide model to explore net-zero transition in Ukraine. The assessment considers the potential implications of the ongoing war in the country and analyzes how the achievement of ambitious mitigation goals could impact the indicators related to the Sustainable Development Goal on energy, SDG7 (Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy). Results suggest that the net-zero transition would help improve several SDG7 indicators, including increased share of renewables in total final energy consumption, and increased energy affordability in the long run. However, in the medium run, increasing energy prices and rising investment needs might challenge the net-zero transition in the country. Overall cumulative investment needs increase by around 23% over the analyzed time horizon with the major portion being concentrated within the 2030–2045 timeframe. Major efforts need to be made to ensure the availability of a wide range of options for clean and green energy financing in Ukraine, including a reduction of the bond yield rates, creation of the specialized funds to support the ‘green’ transition, as well as the creation of a more competitive domestic environment through increasing mitigation ambition. If successfully implemented, these will allow Ukraine to rebuild the domestic energy system in a more technologically advanced and climate-friendly way, at the same time further supporting the country’s sustainable development agenda.
3. Maksym Chepeliev, Oleksandr Diachuk, Roman Podolets, Andrii Semeniuk, What is the future of nuclear power in Ukraine? The role of war, techno-economic drivers, and safety considerations, Energy Policy, Volume 178, 2023, 113612, ISSN 0301-4215, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2023.113612. (https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301421523001970) 
Abstract: The TIMES-Ukraine energy system model is used to explore the future of nuclear power plants (NPPs) under an ambitious climate policy scenario, achieving net zero greenhouse gas emissions in 2050. Varying techno-economic (construction costs and capacity factors for NPPs, capital costs for solar and wind), policy (ban on construction or extension of NPPs), and macroeconomic (alternative economic recovery trajectories) factors are considered. The difference in the techno-economic assumptions for nuclear power generation has a very moderate impact on the total system costs (TSC) of the energy transition, as their variation (positive or negative change) does not exceed 0.1%–0.2% relative to the default case. Policy decisions on restricting nuclear power generation could have a more substantial impact, as TSC increase by 4–5 billion USD (0.6%–0.9%) over the 2020–2050 period under the most restrictive case. In terms of the economic viability of various NPPs, we find small modular reactors to be more competitive than large NPPs due to the higher availability factor. Overall, in terms of developing new NPP capacities, policymakers can consider alternative futures for this technology without major implications for the energy transition costs, as retired NPPs can be substituted by alternative generation technologies in a cost-competitive manner. Keywords: Nuclear energy; Ukraine; Russian invasion; Greenhouse gas emissions; Climate mitigation; TIMES-Ukraine model
4. Maksym Chepeliev, Oleksandr Diachuk, Roman Podolets, Galyna Trypolska, The role of bioenergy in Ukraine's climate mitigation policy by 2050, Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, Volume 152, 2021, 111714, ISSN 1364-0321, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2021.111714. (https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364032121009886) 
Abstract: The development of renewable energy sources (RES) is considered to be a key instrument in addressing climate change. However, different RES have different potential and economic feasibility depending on country-specific conditions and mitigation ambitions. Understanding the relative importance of each RES could help policymakers focus their efforts on the most promising options. In this paper, we focus on Ukraine and explore the potential of biomass use under two mitigation scenarios – with 68% and 83% of greenhouse gas emissions reduction in 2050 relative to the 2010 level. First, using the TIMES-Ukraine energy system model, we show that biomass would play a major role in the future climate mitigation. If constrained at the baseline scenario level (due to political or other reasons), mitigation costs would be substantially higher – by 14.0–19.6 B € or 10.8–14.3 €/tCO2-eq., over the 2020–2050 time frame. Second, we quantify the importance of each biomass source. We show that woody biomass and bioliquids are the most important biofuels under the high-ambition climate scenario, while biowaste and bioliquids play a key role in the lower ambition pathway. Finally, we analyse the current policy environment in the context of future biomass development and conclude with a set of policy recommendations toward the realization of the biomass potential in Ukraine. We believe that findings presented in the paper would be relevant not only for supporting the decision-making process in Ukraine, but could also provide useful insights for other countries with similar conditions. Keywords: Biomass; Biofuels; Ukraine; CO2; Climate mitigation policy; TIMES-Ukraine model
5. Chepeliev, M., Diachuk, O., Podolets, R. (2018). Economic Assessment of Low-Emission Development Scenarios for Ukraine. In: Giannakidis, G., Karlsson, K., Labriet, M., Gallachóir, B. (eds) Limiting Global Warming to Well Below 2 °C: Energy System Modelling and Policy Development. Lecture Notes in Energy, vol 64. Springer, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-74424-7_17
Abstract: In this chapter, we provide an assessment of low-emission development scenarios for the Ukrainian economy, which faces significant economic and environmental challenges. We use the soft-linkage of the TIMES-Ukraine and Ukrainian computable general equilibrium models, which allows us to estimate an economy wide implications of long-term energy policies, including the Ukrainian low-carbon development strategy initiative (consistent with 2 °C target), and a more ambitious transition towards 92% share of renewables in gross final energy consumption by 2050 (consistent with 1.5 °C). Results show that further maintenance of the existing highly inefficient energy system is more expensive than transition towards a 92% renewables share. Key differences between 2 and 1.5 °C scenarios arise after 2035–2040, which enables the possibility of smooth transitions from less to more stringent pathways during this period. With initially low level of energy efficiency in Ukraine, both policies result in positive macroeconomic and sectoral effects, with better perspectives in case of the renewable scenario, which at the same time requires over 3 times more investment. The existing institutional environment and inefficient market framework can pose significant risks. Key sets of issues, which should be further addressed by policy makers, include: inconsistency between targets of different strategic energy documents; lack of incentives for market transformation, including environmental taxation for industrial users and further subsidy reform for households; and lack of competition and transparency on energy markets.
